Welcome to MATLAB/SIMULINK Mastery Course. This is the course Introduction.
There is nothing better than getting introduced to this course via an application from real life
Think about how a simple dish washer works
First you set the washing time which controls the time to clean the dishes
The dish washer will run based on that time. The output is the dishes
and regardless of the cleanliness of the dishes, the dish washer will stop after that set time.
The dish washer here is our system
There are some physics behind how the different components work
And in order to design this dish washer you need to understand the physics
and express it in Mathematical Equations
There are also other techniques to represent how the dish washer works
Not only that but also simulating the output of the dish washer
based on a certain input without even building the dish washer.
If you have loaded the dish washer with 10 dishes full of cake the set time might not be enough to clean them
So imagine that we have added a sensor to measure how the dishes are cleaned
and we compared this measurement to a desired level of cleanliness
the difference between them is fed to what we call a controller
which is designed to analyse and provide correction action to the time set in order to reach the desired level of cleanliness.
We call this closed loop control system.
To design any control system you have to follow 3 different steps
1- Model the system which in our case the dish washer
This could be done by writing the mathematical equations to describe how it works
Further modelling could be done using SIMULINK to visualize the different system components.
2 – You have to understand clearly what is the purpose of this control system
in our example we want our controller to update the time we’ve set in order to reach the required level of cleanliness.
Finally design and simulate the controller.
These 3 steps require certain skills to master, and these skills are covered in details inside this course.
In addition you need understand how the software of the dish washer works
for example how this dish washer respond to different user inputs
like turning on or off, setting time, chose programme and so on
and this is done by what we finite state machine which is also part of this course.
Based on that we can summarize the course structure to 4 different sections.
Section 1: Getting started with MATLAB/SIMULINK which is a friendly step by step introduction
to master the basics of SIMULINK.
Section 2: Introduction to modelling & Simulation, in which you will learn how to do both the mathematical modelling
and process modelling using block diagrams for different types of systems like (Mechanical – Electrical & Hydraulic)
Section 3: which is an advanced section in which you learn how to use MATLAB SIMULINK
to model and simulate real life applications and also how to build and tune different controllers
Section 4: you will learn how to design and simulate Finite State Machines
In this course you will solve some problems from real life like: Modelling & simulation of a car suspension system
Modelling & Simulation of a DC Motor
We will also look at problem of tank level controlling, we will design a PID controller to solve this problem
We will design and simulate the system of traffic light and also we will design and simulate the car turning signal system.
We update this course from time to time which means new projects will be added. And you will be informed.
We ask you to have some knowledge prior to join this course they are
1 – Having a MATLAB/SIMULINK software you can download the new vrisions from mathwork website
2 – You should be familiar with MATLAB , the syntax, how to programme in MATLAB using M-files
Using Mtahematical Functions and so on.
3 – It will be very good if you have a mathematical background.
In order to get the maximum benefit out of this course follow my 3 steps
Step 1 Watch every lecture first address the problem discussed , pause if you want to think about this problem
And after finishing the lecture try to re model and solve the problem yourself. So Watch and Apply.
Step 2 Finish all the quizzes, assignments and don’t skip them.
Step 3 Ask for help rembeber We are here to help you
if anything is not clear don’t hesistate to use the dicssuion board from here
And don’t forget to download any lecture resources from here.
I would like to say that this course is not perfect but we promise to provide the best support during the course.
If you’ve not enrolled yet keep watching the free preview and you are more than welcome to join us in this course
Thank guys for watching I'm REZK AHMED
Your course instructor